GREAT DRAGON:
In a land of myth and a time of magic...
...the destiny of a great kingdom
rests on the shoulders of a young man.
His name: Merlin.
[CROWD CHEERING AND LAUGHING]
Oh! Did you see that?
It's a man throwing sticks in the air.
What's wrong? It's your birthday.
A huge feast is being held in your honor.
You've got dancers, jugglers
and acrobats to entertain you.
[SIGHS]
It must be a terrible burden.
Perhaps I'm less easily impressed
than you.
-I'm really looking forward to it.
-Because you have the mind of a child.
[QUIETLY]
And yet I'm still more intelligent than you.
ARTHUR:
| heard that.
You have misplaced something, Geldred?
Our special gift to the prince.
| cannot find it anywhere.
Geldred, I took the liberty of
ensuring their safe passage myself.
We must make sure that
this is a celebration...
...the young prince will never forget.
ARTHUR: The court discussed
the annual levy this morning.
The council suggested we raise it, but
| feel the people are already overburdened.
We should not talk about
matters of court today.
Father?
You think I would ever forget
that today is the anniversary...
...of your birth?
| take it there are plans for...
...Suitable celebrations this evening.
A feast and, um...
...some entertainment.
-I'll tell you about it tomorrow.
-Nonsense.
You think I would miss
my son's anniversary?
[CROWD GASPING AND LAUGHING]
[BAND PLAYING UPBEAT MUSIC]
[CROWD APPLAUDING]
| require a volunteer.
Prince Arthur, what better
or more fitting occasion...
...for you to demonstrate
your legendary bravery?
Do you accept the challenge?
Of course.
[CROWD APPLAUDING]
[CHUCKLES]
MERLIN: Is this safe?
-It's knife throwing, Merlin.
Of course it's not safe.
| could hardly refuse his challenge.
Do not fear, my lord.
| never miss my target.
Good. Glad to hear it.
-May 17?
-Uh-- Unh.
[CROWD CHEERING AND APPLAUDING]
[BLADE PLUNGES]
[CROWD GASPS]
[CROWD CHEERING AND APPLAUDING]
[BAND PLAYING UPBEAT MUSIC]
See, Merlin? Nothing to worry about.
In a few hours time, the sedative
on the apple will begin to take effect.
The prince will be defenseless.
Then we will strike.
[CROWD CHEERING AND APPLAUDING]
You're telling me you weren't
even a little bit scared?
Of course I wasn't. I'm a warrior.
You learn to control your fear,
to channel it.
You looked scared.
It was good to see my father
enjoying himself.
He looked a little quiet
towards the end there.
-Perhaps I should go see him.
-Are you sure that's a good idea?
-You can barely stand up.
-Are you saying I'm drunk?
No. I'm just saying I don't think you
should be wandering around the palace.
And why is that?
You're not wearing any trousers.
Good point.
ARTHUR:
Guards!
Goodbye, Arthur Pendragon.
It'll take more than a coward like you
to kill my son.
[BOTH GRUNTING]
[GROANS]
Have you anything to say
to your son before I kill him?
UTHER: Unh.
ARTHUR: Father?
No.
Guards.
-I'll go get help.
-Stay with me.
I'm here, Father.
Guards!
Someone!
We need help.
-It's my time.
-No.
You can't die.
| know you will make me proud,
as you always have.
-You will be a great king.
-I'm not ready.
You-- You have been ready
for some time, Arthur.
No.
- I need you.
- I know I've not been a good father.
I've put my duty to Camelot first.
-No.
-I'm sorry.
Don't say that.
But know this, Arthur.
I've always loved you.
ARTHUR:
Gaius.
Can you treat him?
The blade has touched his heart.
He's bleeding inside.
There must be something--
There must be something you can do.
Please, Gaius.
It's only a matter of time, I'm afraid.
I'm sorry, Arthur.
AGRAVAINE: We traced the assassin
to the town of Wenham.
It's in Odin's land.
It seems he hired him...
...to kill you to avenge
the death of his son.
Camelot's thoughts
are with you, Arthur.
But if there's anything I can do...
Your support means a great deal to me.
Thank you.
-What news of my father?
-There is no change.
Why isn't Gaius doing something then?
Because there is nothing he can do.
Now, is that any way
to greet an old friend?
-I wasn't expecting you today.
- I had to see you.
| bring good news.
Better than we could have hoped for.
What is it?
Uther has been mortally wounded.
He's on his deathbed. Gaius says
he only has a few days to live.
| hope the image of my face
haunts him.
-How is Arthur?
-Devastated.
Poor boy can't think straight.
Then we must strike
while he's vulnerable.
When Uther dies,
the kingdom will be weak.
We must choose
our moments carefully.
Who knows what opportunities
the coming weeks will hold?
| appreciate your kindness...
...everything you're doing for him.
| do it for you.
Oh, Arthur.
| can't watch him die.
There's still so much I want to say to him.
He cannot die.
[DOOR OPENS]
What's going on?
It's a vigil for your father.
The people wish to share their grief.
Why are they behaving like he's already
dead when there's still life in his body?
MERLIN:
They're preparing themselves for the worst.
Well, they can give up hope, but I won't.
| know.
It's hard to accept.
| wish it wasn't so, but...
...there really is nothing
that can be done.
There is a way to heal my father.
How?
With magic.
-Arthur's planning on using magic?
MERLIN: He's desperate.
He knows it's his only hope
of healing Uther.
Merlin, please tell me
you're not going to do this.
I'd be lying if I said no.
You can't risk exposing yourself like this.
It's too dangerous.
Arthur didn't recognize me last time
when I was 80 years old.
-There's no reason why he should this time.
-The last time...
...you used an aging spell, you nearly
had yourself burnt at the stake.
-It's worth the risk.
-Do you think Uther is going to thank you...
...for healing him with magic?
He's more likely to have you hanged.
Uther will never change his attitude
towards magic. I know that.
But if Arthur allows it
to be used to heal his father...
...his attitude would be changed forever.
He'll see that magic
can be a force for good.
You of all people should know that the use
of powerful magic is fraught with danger.
-If it works, I won't have to hide anymore.
-And if it doesn't?
| can't stand by and watch you
do this, Merlin.
Well, don't try and stop me, because...
...you can't.
You're playing
a dangerous game, Merlin.
I've been playing a dangerous game...
...since the first time
| set foot in Camelot.
Maybe this is my chance
to change that.
[SIGHS]
Well? What did Gaius say?
Did he have any information?
He didn't know much, but he has
heard of a sorcerer, an old man.
He lives in the forest of Glaestig.
Gaius thinks
he may be able to help you.
-Will he lead me to him?
-He has told me all that he knows.
We will have to find him ourselves.
If you were me...
...and it was your father...
...would you use magic
to save his life?
Yes, I would.
| would do whatever it took.
Prepare the horses.
Gather supplies.
We ride at first light.
[DOOR OPENS]
Arthur. What news
of your father's health?
No improvement, I'm afraid.
Something's on your mind.
| didn't want to go behind your back.
| have decided to use magic
to heal my father.
| would strongly advise
against such a course of action.
-There is no other way.
-Magic caused your mother's death, Arthur.
-If you respect her memory, you cannot.
-Would you see my father die?
[SIGHS]
Perhaps it is his time.
Look, I know we've both suffered
because of magic...
...but I can't stand by
and let my father die.
My mind's made up.
Are you sure this is the right place?
It looks like a charcoal maker's hut.
The old man can hardly make
a living practicing magic.
| think that a lot of sorcerers
are in the charcoal business.
Are you joining me?
We don't want to overwhelm him.
Probably doesn't get many visitors.
I'll stay out here and watch the horses.
| have never met anyone
who's so scared so often.
Scream like a big girl
if there's any trouble.
Don't worry. You'll hear me.
[KNOCKS]
Hello?
There's no one here.
Are you sure this is the right place?
I'm absolutely certain of it.
I'm sure he'll be back soon.
How do you know?
He's a doddery old man. He can't have gone
far. If you want his help, you'll have to just...
...wait for him inside.
Where are you sneaking off to?
| have to pee.
So unless you want
to come and watch me--
You should wait for him inside.
Why would I want to watch you?
There's the hut. I have to--
Make yourself at home.
[SIGHS]
[SPEAKING IN ANCIENT LANGUAGE]
[DOOR OPENS]
[SCOFFS]
You.
So we meet again, Arthur Pendragon.
You have come to kill me?
No, that wasn't my intention.
[CROCKERY CLATTERS]
| broke a pot.
[SCOFFS]
You always were a clumsy fool.
Excuse me?
[CHUCKLES]
So if you haven't come all this way
to kill me, why have you come here?
| take it you didn't come all this way
just to smash my favorite pot.
If I'd known who you were,
| wouldn't have come at all.
| thought you may have come to ask me
to use magic to heal your father.
How did you know?
| know more than you
can possibly comprehend.
Well, given your hatred for my father
and everything he stands for...
...I've clearly had a wasted journey.
Do not suppose that you know my mind.
Will you help me?
You are asking me...
...to save the life of a man
that would have me executed?
| know what I'm asking of you, and
| know you have no reason to help me...
...but you're my father's only hope.
I'll give you anything you ask for:
land, gold.
-Name your price.
- I do not want your gold!
All I have ever wanted...
...Is that people like me can live in peace.
That those who practice magic...
...are accepted rather than hunted.
That is all I ask.
That is the price...
...of your father's life.
| give you my solemn word.
When I am king, things will be different.
You won't have to live in fear.
Then...
...will help you.
[CHUCKLING]
Then there's no time to waste.
We must ride for Camelot immediately.
-Now?
-My father weakens by the hour.
But I have no horse.
You can use Merlin's.
He'll have to walk back.
You would make your servant
walk back to Camelot?
| have a good mind not to help you.
| don't care whose horse you use.
We have to get back to Camelot
before it's too late.
First, I must gather some rare herbs.
They are an essential part of the cure.
| will come to Camelot at nightfall. If you
want my help, that is how it needs to be.
| will meet you at the lower gate
outside the town.
Give me your word you'll be there.
You have my word.
Now just wait here one moment!
Why?
Questions. So many questions.
For once in your life, would you
just do what you're told?
[DOOR OPENS THEN CLOSES]
All right.
[BURPS]
Merlin?
[BRUSH RUSTLING]
[SIGHS]
What were you doing?
Peeing.
You mean to say you were peeing
all the time I was in there?
-Yeah. I really had to go.
-There is definitely something...
...very wrong with you.
Merlin! I was worried.
| thought something had happened.
Well, apart from Arthur thinking there's
something very wrong with my bladder...
...everything went to plan.
| take it that this means
you're going through with it.
If I can heal Uther,
Arthur has given me his word...
...that when he's king, magic will no longer
be outlawed. This could change everything.
What if something goes wrong?
What of Arthur's attitude to magic then?
| live with the risk of being exposed
every day. If I don't take this opportunity...
...maybe I'll spend the rest of my life
having to hide who I really am.
Everyone's always telling me I have this
great destiny. Maybe this is it. I have to try.
Arthur has gone to consult
with a sorcerer.
He intends to use magic to heal Uther.
Then we must see to it that he fails.
[SPEAKING IN ANCIENT LANGUAGE]
-It's cold.
- I have bound it to the left-hand path.
-Place the charm around Uther's neck.
-What will it do to him?
The force of any healing magic
will be reversed and magnified tenfold.
By trying to cure his father,
Arthur will seal his fate.
Arthur will never forgive himself.
He'll be destroyed.
And a broken prince
will make a terrible king.
| promised Arthur I could heal Uther.
| can't even find the right spell.
That's because you're reading
the wrong books. Here.
Gwillem of Cambria was as mad as a coot,
but there was never a better healer.
Gaius, thank you.
[GASPS]
It was cold today.
Perhaps it's a good idea to start a fire.
Of course.
Finally, you will get
all that you deserve...
...old friend.
You must use only four drops.
Any more could be dangerous.
- I just hope I can remember the spell.
-You must trust your abilities, Merlin.
ARTHUR: Merlin!
-You have to get rid of him.
ARTHUR:
Merlin!
GAIUS: Arthur.
-Gaius, have you seen...
...my useless toad of a servant?
-I'm afraid not.
-Well, where on earth is he?
-Have you tried the tavern?
-The tavern. Of course.
| am going to make him
wish he was never born.
Why'd you tell him
| was in the tavern?
It was the first thing
that popped into my head.
Next time, go for the second or third thing
that pops into your head.
Anywhere but the tavern.
Good luck, Merlin.
-I'd started to think you weren't coming.
- Igave you my word.
And here I am.
Good. We must hurry.
Hey!
| am led to believe that
the king's palace is that way.
| can hardly be seen walking through
the main gate with a known sorcerer.
So you are already
going back on your word.
You promised that I would no longer
have to live in fear.
You're forgetting that you have yet
to heal my father.
When you have, I'll give you
everything I promised.
Is this really as fast
as you can walk?
When you are as old as |,
we will see how fast you can walk.
-I need to rest a moment.
-There's no time.
Then perhaps you should carry me.
Fine. If it means we get there
quicker, I will carry you.
Come on.
[SORCERER GRUNTING]
Did you just kick me?
Now who's wasting time?
Hyah! Unh!
Hyah!
Faster. Faster.
You're dismissed.
But, sire, we were instructed
not to leave our post.
-And I said you're dismissed.
-Yes, my lord.
[CLEARS THROAT]
[INHALES SHARPLY]
Wait.
Is something wrong?
My father has taught me never to trust
magic. Now I'm using it to save him.
Your own life has been saved using magic
more times than you can possibly imagine.
What on earth are you talking about?
| merely mean to say
that magic is all around you.
It is woven into
the very fabric of the world.
How can I be sure
it's the right thing to do?
| know you have suffered
because of magic...
...as many have.
But not all magic and not all sorcerers...
...are the same.
| wish only to show you
that magic can be used for good.
| hope...
...one day you will see me
in a different light.
[SPEAKING IN ANCIENT LANGUAGE]
[GASPS]
ARTHUR:
Father.
[SIGHS]
Arthur.
[CHUCKLING]
[GROANING]
-What's happening?
- I don't know.
Well, do something.
[EXHALES]
He's dead.
No. He can't be.
Father.
Father!
What have you done?
This was not supposed to happen.
You gave me your word.
You-- You have killed him.
-You killed him!
-No!
You'll die for what you've done!
[SHOUTS IN ANCIENT LANGUAGE]
[BELL TOLLING]
GAIUS:
I'm sorry, Arthur.
The king is dead.
The spell was working.
I'm sure of it.
I'd done everything right.
| don't know what happened.
| think I do.
| found it around Uther's neck.
It's been enchanted.
And such an enchantment would reverse
the effects of your healing spell.
Uther didn't stand a chance.
Morgana.
| believe so.
[DOOR OPENS]
Uther's dead, isn't he?
How did you know?
| felt it, felt his pain.
| thought Uther's death
would be cause for celebration.
Arthur will replace him.
There'll be no celebration
until I take my place upon the throne.
That may be sooner than you think.
Arthur is young, untested.
He will look to his trusted uncle for
counsel, and I will ensure that he fails.
| am so sorry.
| should-- I sh--
| wish that there was something
| could have done.
Merlin, no one but me
is to blame for this.
You are not to blame.
This isn't your fault.
I'm entirely to blame.
My father spent 20 years fighting magic.
To think I knew better.
| was so arrogant.
That arrogance cost my father his life.
You were only doing what you thought
was right. That old sorcerer meant no harm.
Perhaps the spell went wrong.
Uther was dying.
Maybe nothing could have saved him.
We'll never know.
All I know for sure is that
I've lost both my parents to magic.
It is pure evil.
I'll never lose sight of that again.
[KNOCKING ON DOOR]
[THUNDER RUMBLING]
We must leave him to mourn.
Merlin?
This is all my fault.
| killed him.
You did not kill Uther. Morgana did.
Uther's spirit died
when she broke his heart.
We must look to the future.
Uther's death will allow
Arthur's progression to the throne.
We must hope it brings
peace and stability to the land.
Magic will still be outlawed.
| have turned Arthur against it forever.
He'll never know who I really am.
That time will come. I'm sure of it.
Arthur will be under even more pressure
now that he is king.
He will need you more than ever.
There's nothing more to be done.
Let's go and have some supper.
| think I'll wait here.
ARTHUR:
Merlin.
It's a new day.
Have you been here all night?
| didn't want you to feel
that you were alone.
You are a loyal friend, Merlin.
[SHARPLY INHALES]
You must be hungry.
Starving.
Me too. Come on.
You can make us some breakfast.
[PLAYING FANFARE]
Will you solemnly promise and swear...
...to govern the peoples of Camelot...
...according to their respective
laws and customs?
| solemnly swear so to do.
MAN:
Will you, to your power...
...cause law and justice, in mercy...
...to be executed in all your judgments?
| will.
Then by the sacred law vested in me...
...I crown you, Arthur, King of Camelot.
Long live the king!
ALL:
GREAT DRAGON:
Merlin.
GAIUS:
Borden is not a man to be trusted.
-What do you want?
-To help you.
-We both know what he hid there.
-A dragon's egg.
MAN [WHISPERING]:
Emrys.
You want the egg
to remain lost forever.
This is a chance in a thousand, Merlin.
No!
[English - US - SDH]